1 
 
      
OVERVIEW OF A PASSOVER 
 DINNER 
 
 
 
It will be much easier as you prepare for the Passover Seder Dinner if you have a basic 
understanding of the Biblical meaning and historical traditions of the celebration.  This 
overview is designed to help you get a quick overall picture of what is happening at a Passover 
Dinner. 
 
 
WHAT PASSOVER CELEBRATES 
 
As in all Biblical holidays, Passover is both a holiday of remembrance and a holiday of 
prophecy.  Passover for the Jewish people is the annual celebration of God delivering Israel out 
of Egypt (Exodus 12).  The entire service, with its various ceremonies, is designed to help the 
Jewish people remember the great workings of God when, through signs and wonders, He 
freed the Jewish people from the bondage of the Egyptians and delivered them to the promised 
land of Israel.  Passover is a holiday of redemption picturing how God used the death of an 
innocent lamb to redeem the firstborn sons of Israel from death and free the nation of Israel 
from slavery. 
 
Passover is certainly the most important Biblical holiday for Christians.  It also clearly 
pictures the redemption Jesus provided for our sin.  The last meal Jesus ate with His disciples 
in the Upper Room was a Passover meal.  It was during this Passover meal that Jesus took a 
piece of unleavened bread and a cup of the fruit of the vine and said to His disciples that these 
represented His body given in death and His blood shed for the remission of sins (Luke 22:19, 
20).  The Messiah used the story of the redemption from Egypt to illustrate the redemption 
Jesus provided for us on the cross.  Having a Passover dinner, either in the church or in one’s 
home is a beautiful opportunity to celebrate the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus in its 
historical, New Testament setting as it was celebrated by the disciples with the Messiah.  We 
can rejoice “For Christ our Passover lamb has been sacrificed for us” (1 Corinthians 5:7). 
 
 
HOW PASSOVER IS CELEBRATED 
 
The Haggadah and the Messianic Haggadah 
 
Through the centuries since it was first instituted by God as the Israelites came out of 
Egypt, many traditions have been added to the Passover celebration. 
 
